Agenda for 2025-04-30 CG meeting (#729)
solid/specification: meetings/2025-04-30.md

* HZ: I heard a shocking statement at IIW (internet identity workshop). Mostly people from EU and NA, some also from Asia. People were saying that we are too early with Solid. It was suggested that we need 3 or 4 things for self soverign systems. If you can't prove your identity, due to issuer of identity blocking you it's game over.
* ...: The 2rd component is storage, if they cut access to your data you loose it. I need to prove my identity and own my data. The 3rd component is messaging, if I can't communicate it is again game over.
* ...: There is also running algorithms. There is a big limitations of what I can do. The battles in the identity space is not over. There are sophisticated discussions in identity space. Whatever solution is adopted for identity, if storage and messaging doesn't support that, they will not be successful.
* ...: In our work we need to be able to support those identity systems.

> * eP: I joined one of the EU groups, I have the impression that if we don't engage with this groups it will not help. We should engage more, crosspolinate and present reports on what happens in other groups.
> * ... Solid is more like generic servers, smart clients. The algorithms that can run on your data, that logic belongs to the client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* eP: I joined one of the EU groups. I have the impression that if we don't engage with these groups, it will not help. We should engage more, cross-pollenate, and present reports on what happens in other groups.
* ... Solid is more like generic servers, smart clients. The algorithms that can run on your data; that logic belongs to the client.
```

> * HZ: Personally I disaprove. From my experience, this doesn't scale. I had this converstation with Tim a couple of times. In my experience a lot of it would need to go into infrastructure. I tried to had this conversation in LWS. You will never have performance if you put a burden on the client, especially if it runs in the browser. 
> * eP: ...
> * HZ: For some reason we don't show examples of that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* HZ: Personally, I disapprove. From my experience, this doesn't scale. I had this conversation with Tim a couple of times. In my experience, a lot of it would need to go into infrastructure. I tried to have this conversation in LWS. You will never have performance if you put a burden on the client, especially if it runs in the browser. 
* eP: (???)
* HZ: For some reason we don't show examples of that.
```

> * MH: When I socialize Solid. People say there are not many examples out there. 3 reasons to do something are: make money, save money and stay out of trouble. That's how things get real world traction and get adopted. I would like to see more real world use cases. 
> * ...: Solid is the only framwork that allows user to have custody of their data. In certain industry domains, having this control is significant. In health casre, research and drug discovery. We try to give patients parity with payers and providers. Currently there is imbalance where patients have no power. We want to solve that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* MH: When I socialize Solid, people say there are not many examples out there. 3 reasons to do something are: make money, save money, and stay out of trouble. These are how things get real world traction and get adopted. I would like to see more real world use cases. 
* ...: Solid is the only framwork that allows the user to have custody of their data. In certain industry domains, having this control is significant. In health care, research, and drug discovery, we try to give patients parity with payers and providers. Currently there is an imbalance where patients have no power. We want to solve that.
```

> * HZ: It is not only payers and providers. HC providers are bound by what the administration imposes them to do. If you are provider that moves between hospitals you may need to learn a new ???.
> * MH: Currently the state of patient data is scattered over all different platforms. If you want to unify it, where do you put it? Often those are a big piecies of data which don't move easily.
> * HZ: How do you see those examples of how Solid works?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* HZ: It is not only payers and providers. HC providers are bound by what the administration imposes upon them. If you are a provider that moves between hospitals, you may need to learn a new (???).
* MH: Currently, the state of patient data is scattered over all different platforms. If you want to unify it, where do you put it? Often there are a big pieces of data which don't move easily.
* HZ: How do you see those examples of how Solid works?
```

> * MH: Providers must honor patient request for data. They need to use harmonized format of data FIHR. There's also imaging and video standard ???
> * ...: ...
> * HZ: Do you know of any work group which tries to align FIHR with solid?
> * eP: Eric, WG co-chair worked with it AFAIK
> * HZ: I believe he needed to implement his own Solid Server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* MH: Providers must honor patient requests for data. They need to use a harmonized format of data, e.g., FIHR. There are also imaging and video standards (???)
* ...: ...
* HZ: Do you know of any work group which tries to align FIHR with Solid?
* eP: Eric, WG co-chair, worked with it AFAIK
* HZ: I believe he needed to implement his own Solid Server.
```
